hi everyone Lucy here and today we're
gonna talk more with a TOEFL listening
test and in this particular video we're
going to look at lecture skill 10
inference so first we're going to
describe the tasks next we're going to
look at the method and finally it's time
for you to do some practice so the
purpose of today's lesson is to
understand exactly how to complete the
listening inference question type
now remember when our inference
conversation task we talked a little bit
about inference but let's look at it a
little bit more so remember that
inference is when you make an assumption
about something that is not directly
stated you're trying to logically
connect ideas to come to a conclusion
about something so for example if your
friend says have you eaten yet they
don't really want to know if you've
eaten they want to know if you're hungry
and you could probably infer that
they're hungry too now in the lecture an
inference task you may be asked to make
an inference about a particular phrase
in this case you can listen to the
phrase again however you may also be
asked to make an inference about the
whole lecture and if it's about the
whole lecture you can't listen again you
have to use your notes so this is why
note-taking is so very important ok so
let's look at our method and as always
step 1 is to listen to the audio and
take notes now remember when you're
taking notes you don't want to write
full sentences you just want to have key
words key ideas something to help
organize your thoughts now if it's in if
it helps you use a system that is useful
for you so some people like to use
abbreviations some people like to use
acronyms whatever is helpful for you
that's something that you should use now
if you don't already make sure you have
a pen and paper available because it's
time for us to listen and take notes
okay are you ready
here is your lecture language
acquisition is the process by which
humans acquire the capacity to perceive
and comprehend language as well as to
produce and use words and sentences to
communicate language acquisition is one
of the quintessential human traits
because nonhumans do not communicate by
using language the capacity
to successfully use language requires
one to acquire a range of tools
including phonology morphology syntax
semantics and an extensive vocabulary
even though human language capacity is
finite one can say and understand an
infinite number of sentences okay
fantastic hopefully you were able to
take some useful notes from that let's
take a look at a sample set of notes so
you can see again just a few phrases
nice and short and sweet we have things
like language acquisition humans acquire
Lang and produce words notice they're
using the abbreviation Lang instead of
language human trait requires tools and
infinite sentences now step two is to
read the question and answer options
remember that in the TOEFL listening
you're going to have to listen to the
audio before you see the questions okay
so let's take a look at the question
here it says the lecture implies that
language acquisition is a complicated
process humans have developed the
ability to acquire language over an
extensive period of evolution humans are
more sophisticated than animals or there
are more ways to express language than
just through verbal communication now
our next step is to check our notes and
eliminate answers okay now remember in
this particular question they're asking
for the inference of the entire lecture
so you don't get to listen again you
have to just look at your notes so let's
look again on our notes and the question
and try to compare them now here our
notes and here is the question with the
answer choices take a moment and see if
you can find any answer choices that are
obviously wrong any ones that don't fit
okay now obviously our next step is to
choose the right answer okay if you
haven't already go back and look at that
question in those answer choices and
choose the answer you think fits best
okay are you ready here's the answer it
is a language acquisition is a
complicated process now remember this
answer is correct even though the
lecturer never stated directly that
language acquisition is complicated
remember you're making an inference this
is something that is stated indirectly
okay so now it's time for you to do some
practice on your own all right if you
don't already get a piece of paper and a
pen ready because it's time to listen
and take notes okay here is your
practice lecture from the late eighth to
the late 11th centuries the Vikings
dominated Europe and spread across the
world from the far reaches of Russia to
the eastern coast of North America they
are remembered through history as
violent Raiders though their raids were
undoubtedly brutal many Vikings also
traded farmed and settled peacefully
making their mark on nearly every region
and civilization they touched perhaps
the most striking of Viking in chief
'men technology which allowed them to
travel greater distances than anyone
before them their signature long boats
were faster lighter and more flexible
and more easily maneuverable than other
ships of the time but the Vikings
exploring prowess also had a great deal
to their skills as navigators they
relied on simple but sophisticated tools
like the Sun compass which use which
utilized calcite crystals known as Sun
stones to identify the positions of the
Sun even after sunset or on overcast
days such innovations gave Vikings a
distinct advantage when traveling long
distances to foreign lands in their
heyday Vikings were active on four
continents simultaneously making them
the first true global citizens
okay fantastic hopefully you were able
to get some good notes out of that now
it's time to look at the question and
the question says this
okay fantastic so have you eliminated
the wrong answer choices and then chosen
the correct one hopefully you've got it
right let's take a look at our answer
and the answer is d though they were
brutal
they also made some positive
contributions to history fantastic thank
you so much for watching and we hope
that was a good help for you if you have
any questions or any problems don't be
afraid to check out our website at eetu
language comm thank you again for
watching and see you next time bye